banks are preparing for a wave of
defaults but it doesn't end there in
fact that's only the beginning you came
here for the truth so let me unveil that
for you in today's video we are going to
look at what's happening in the
financial system that'll be the nucleus
and then we're going to start going
around and understanding the bigger
picture in fact if there are failures if
there is a crisis at some point in the
future how you will be directly impacted
it doesn't happen to happen today or
tomorrow or next week or even next year
but understand that this bubble is
getting so massive that there won't be a
corner it won't touch let me tell you
remember when you're blowing up one of
those big Bubblicious gums as you blow
that up it gets thinner and thinner and
thinner and suddenly it makes a mess all
over your face just like this fast food
inflation over the last 10 years you
could see that has gone up
and this is a great marker of what's
been happening over the last while as
people are paying more for the same
stuff in fact in this case here the
stuff's getting smaller and you can look
at it the average person this is about
Gen X but what they're talking about is
simply that people do not have what they
used to you look at any generation look
this is just saying Gen X they are now
turning 59 a half they could start
withdrawing money this is an example the
proportion of savers who say they're on
track with their retirement Gen X
doesn't feel that to be the case maybe
they didn't have the advantages of the
Boomers where you look at your income to
you know price to income
ratios the Gen Z's of of you know even
Millennials they're suffering in their
own right not being able to uh afford
anything and so so Gen X is kind of
stuck in the Middle look distressed
property buyers seek out exceptional
Bargains this is going on here it could
take place in the United States Canada
or anywhere else looking at this what we
have are properties commercial real
estate that are in a world of her now
Finance Friday crew we've talked about
this a lot
before shout outs to Spartan and what
you can see is that in some cases
they're having these commercial
properties with nobody absolutely nobody
no tenants in them simply waiting and
seeing what happens they're just holding
on we're talking about in some cases
grade A Properties some of the most
valuable properties in the city they're
just boarded up they're not going to
bring their rents down they're just
leaving it there now I guess they have
faith longer term we'll see what happens
but these property ities in many cases
are actually distressed and they're
trying to find a buyer but that's not
happening so just look at it and
understand what's happening uh you know
with whatever information we have
publicly available that leads us into
the big news of today banks are
expecting a wave of mortgage defaults
economists say a credit crunch could
hurt us all this is referring to Canada
but understand that this applies to many
many countries around the world but just
let's take this you know piece of data
and we'll start moving in and I'll show
you why this is important for everybody
no matter where you live tens of
thousands of vulnerable households will
renew their mortgages in 2026 at
significantly higher rates pushing
Canada towards a recession in a worst
case scenario what they are talking
about here if you got yours in you know
2020 2021 where a lot of people were
starting to move right oh no we got to
get out of the the cities let's move
into the you know then back and Beyond
places we never would have gone before
we got to hide yeah 2020 and 2021 if
they got a five-year fixed it works
different in from the United States
where you'll typically get between a
threeyear and a 5year mortgage but it's
paid over that 25 years uh so these
people here they're going to be in
trouble it's not a worst case scenario
all right unless the Central Bank just
starts cutting rate back down to zero
and you can't necessarily do that
without creating mass inflation then
that's another problem so they have to
balance us the mortgage crisis has hit
Toronto homeowners hard household debt
is near record levels unemployment is
ining upwards creating a precarious
environment for overleveraged homeowners
already some are losing their homes
mortgage delinquencies and defaults are
expected to continue their trending
upward as homeowners face mortgage
renewals in 2025 2026 so you get that
5year fix term in many cases other
people did variable and you know what's
interesting about those variables so
think about this your payment Might Be
steady okay let's say you're paying
5,000 a month 2,000 a month whatever the
number is oh you're paying 5,000 but
slowly but surely that actually is
simply more and more and more and more
of that being interest so there are some
people today many people that are paying
exclusively interest that's their only
it's an interest only pay they haven't
been paying principle down in years
they're renting and oh rent versus buy
oh no buying ownership is better these
people aren't they're just renting it
basically okay Canada's banking
regulator recently named mortgage
renewal as one of the top Financial Risk
facing the country all the six major
banks in Canada are bracing for more
defaults they're putting aside loan loss
Provisions we've talked about this with
all the US Banks in 2020 they were doing
this uh too it's basically like a rainy
day fund an increase of 1 billion since
last year the crisis will be devastating
for homeowners yes but the followup
won't end there and that's when it
starts to get interesting this is where
we need to start putting our thinking
caps on and start to understand how this
broadens out as more homeowners default
the banks will be forced to put more
Capital aside to cover more bad loans
creating the risk of a shock to The
Lending system worst case it will force
the banks and the lenders into a credit
crunch a decline in lending activity
brought on by a sudden shortage of funds
with a country Canada already the third
highest household debt in the world
becomes harder for people to access the
credit from the banks you get that
tightening you get recession and so on
that's what's going on right here and
right now you've got a problem look a
shocking number total Mortgage Balance
reaching severe delinquency exceeds a
billion dollars for the first time in
Ontario this is you know remember we're
talking different populations on10th the
population so you can add another zero
on these things this is significant if
it was us it would be another zero on it
right um you could see people cutting
back and so on they're trying to trim
their expenses because everything's
going crazy understand you got to if you
think you need to be at a certain level
you got to be twice that in order for
you to be doing okay it's got to be
twice where you thought this is just
showing Mortgage in aers trending up
we're still lower than we were before
don't don't get me wrong right like we
got to understand but it is trending up
and they're suggesting that they can't
come down to that z% interest rates we
did before larage mortgage payments
Loom look at it across the Spectrum
people got to pay more than they did
before that doesn't take a genius to
figure out but the point is they can't
cut down to zero without creating this
Mass inflation and people take to the
streets then you got some serious
problems recession fears are growing who
knows what's going to happen with that
if they even admit it and you're looking
at a debt income ratio that's near 170%
like it's it's just unbelievable it
would never be paid so what happens here
well they're telling you consistently
and this is the case of California um we
need to be prepared to conserve energy
there's going to be too much Demand on
the
grid right
and so what happens here is that people
we've to taken on too much and we've
basically maximized everything because
it's a debt based system and we've hit
the absolute border and what occurs is
in
fact you start to see cutbacks rations
you start to see austerity you start to
see civil unrest you start to see
problems between one group and another
they start to dislike each other very
much why because one points the finger
there one points the finger there
H this is going to start happening more
and more you have this rise of the
restaurant robots chipotes sweet green
and others bet on automation chains
experiment with machine helpers like
Flippy chippy and auto Cado as they face
increasing labor cost I love the Wall
Street Journal finally putting them all
together into one I I think people
thought I was joking actually some
people did they thought I was actually
joking about this these are real things
flippy chippy and
ocado um basically they are
saying that um you're going to have a
different world so imagine you're
competing against the robots you're
competing in a world in which they're
going to get the energy the data centers
for AI will get the
energy the like they're going to get the
resources
and you got to prepare for the fact that
you can't even pay your bills you
understand here you understand what's
going
on what's new well let's talk about this
there's a change from west to east we
know that to be the case I talked about
it a lot and this is the share of global
GDP as they put in Brackets PPP it's the
purchasing power parity G7 and the
bricks Plus so you know just all I'm
trying to say with this is that more and
more change we get more growth coming
from the from this bricks plus that's
where the growth is happening and that's
where the growth will happen I didn't
say you know it'll be the biggest
economy or whatever um but the growth is
coming from there why because they're
still building they're still developing
it's not as a mature economy right it's
not developed we have developing nations
they need more resources they need more
stuff to consume okay so that's where
the growth is going to take place and
they're also saying oh yeah by the way
we need less US dollar now you know that
so something's changing there as well
then we have things like this 0%
financing on a new card deals are back
on some models and I just thought it was
interesting I'm going back to this
enticing people come on we need your
business right and then this one
interesting for the uh business Sunday
uh for for my people on uh the live
sessions on Sunday check this out
valuations of startups have quietly
rebounded to all-time highs some
investors say the slump is
over it goes in more detail but the
point uh with this is that we're in a
different world in terms of you know
financing it's not 0% cash anymore but
the stock market everything the
enthusias m is there as if we're
basically back to those levels so the
enthusiasm is there and that's important
that's an important aspect so what's
happening overall what's going on here
we know that for one reason or another
we are being pushed into a crisis this
crisis is literally going to make a
world of difference in in the vast
majority of people's lives there's going
to be something called a middle class
and there's going to be very few people
as part of it it will be a forgotten
memory because most people are going to
be in the Bottom Rung and then there's
going to be this small group on top and
yeah there's some there is a middle
class but that will shrink and shrink
and
shrink and you got to understand this
and you have to take uh the
circumstances into your own hands if you
don't you will be swallowed whole that's
what's happening here that's what
they're doing intentionally if people
get aware of this they can start to make
changes what can you do two things
pillars of prosperity you do a search
pillars of prosperity the money GPS in
that I talk about the two things one
pillar increase your income as best you
can number two is providing uh yourself
with self-sufficiency okay these two
things are instrumental now we got to be
educated of course we have to stay
informed that's true yes but we can only
spend so much time because imagine like
what is it Indiana Jones or whatever
when the room is like being compacted in
and you're in there you see it it's
getting compacted well I can wait I can
wait I can wait wait all the way to the
last second and then you know hit the
special switch or whatever or I can
start taking action now it's up to you
what do you want to do start to take the
actions now don't just sit there don't
just go on and click the next video you
got to take action today do whatever you
think is right upskilling learning um
you know take the skills you have right
now apply them to a business if you can
if you want to know more about the
things that I do now um I talk about
this on the uh Finance Friday session I
get into a lot more details it's very
different in a way uh way more detail
I'm willing to share a lot more
information on finance Friday on the
business Sunday live that's where we
learn about building an online business
these two things so much more detail two
over two hours as I'm recording this
video we spend basic get two and a half
hours okay doing the business I go
through demos how do you find products
here it is Step 1 2 3 4 5 we get into
all that nobody does the way it that I
do it and certainly nobody gives that
much time to their um subscribers why
because I I appreciate everybody so um
if you want more information Link at the
top of the description yeah you've been
seeing me once per week I want to thank
you for being here um each and every
week
I'm going to try to come back for a
video I'm I've now been uh busy with all
my other businesses that need my
attention and I've I've been neglecting
so that's just the way it goes if you
appreciate it hit the thumbs up button
and I'll see you next time take care